
## GENERAL REGULATIONS

## OF MASTER'S STUDENTS


BOGOTÁ, D.C.



The updated version of the Graduate Student General Regulations should always be consulted at http://secretariageneral.uniandes.edu.co
## MISSION



## VISION



VALUES



## Preamble





CHAPTER I. SCOPE OF APPLICATION





CHAPTER II. GENERAL ORGANIZATION





CHAPTER III. ADMISSION AND RETENTION



Regular Admission
B. Admission by Internal Transfer
C. Entry by External Transfer


D. Permanence


CHAPTER IV. FINANCIAL RIGHTS





CHAPTER V. RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES



A. Rights


Duties


CHAPTER VI. STUDENT PARTICIPATION





# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME

A. Attendance in Class




Absence from class due to special circumstances


B. Grades




Special grades.


Incomplete


Pending


Pending disciplinary action


Pending undergraduate degree with special consideration




Claims




Change of Final Grades




Grading Release




5. Certificate of Grades
C. Academic Status


Disciplinary Suspension


2. Re-entry




3. Voluntary Withdrawal




4. Refund




5. Standard
D. Requirements for all students


Thesis or final project




2. English requirement.


E. Academic Opportunities


1. Enrolment and Withdrawal of Courses


Academic Load


Double major program


Courses during the intersemester period
a) Vacation Courses
b) Summer School Courses





5. Possibility of transferring credits






Possibility of obtaining a degree from a specialized program




7. Attending Students


CHAPTER VIII. ACADEMIC ADVISING





CHAPTER IX. ACADEMIC RECOGNITIONS





# CHAPTER X. PROCEDURES IN MATTERS

## ACADEMICS AND ADMINISTRATION





# CHAPTER XI. DEGREES





CHAPTER XII. SPECIAL TRANSITIONAL REGULATIONS



## Effectiveness



## DEFINITIONS



Universidad de los Andes is an autonomous, independent, and innovative institution that fosters pluralism, tolerance, and respect for ideas; it seeks academic excellence and provides its students with a critical and ethical education to strengthen their awareness of their social and civic responsibilities, as well as their commitment to the environment.

It features students who, in an environment of comprehensive, interdisciplinary, and flexible learning, are the main agents of their educational process. It enables its highly trained faculty to develop an outstanding academic and professional life project, for which it supports investigative activities that contribute to the country's development and its international standing.
## VISION


By the year 2020, Universidad de los Andes will be a leading institution and a reference point in higher education in Latin America, due to the excellence, relevance and pertinence of its academic programs, the quality of its faculty and the research it develops.
The University professes and upholds the following values:
Excellence: Commitment to developing maximum capacities and possibilities to contribute to society.
Integrity: Uprightness in actions in accordance with principles related to human dignity.
Freedom: The ability to use one's own judgment to decide what should be done.

Solidarity: Voluntary commitment to causes that meet the needs of others.
The University of the Andes was founded as a higher education institution, of a private character, not for profit, to offer Colombian youth new educational opportunities in an environment that respects the plurality of ideas and diversity of thought.
The University is considered a community composed of its founders, administrators, professors, alumni, students, and employees, in which decisions must be made taking into account the common good at all times, in accordance with the norms established in its statutes and regulations, and promoting community participation.
The essential function of Universidad de los Andes is to prepare suitable professionals, knowledgeable in their field, with a critical and ethical education, who are aware of their social responsibility, which is fundamentally reflected in their commitment to help transform and improve their environment through their professional practice.
Universidad de los Andes is a place where ideas and knowledge are generated. It is the preeminent institution for stimulating research, suggesting proposals and formulating solutions that contribute to the changes the country needs. Its non-denominational stance and independence from party-political interests places it in a privileged position to launch initiatives that respond to the common good.
This regulation aims to strengthen the relationships between members of the Uniandes community and ensure the exercise of students' rights, as well as the fulfillment of their duties, with broad criteria that facilitate coexistence on campus.



University


# CHAPTER I

SCOPE OF APPLICATION

This student regulation comprises the rights and duties of the students of the master's degree programs at the Universidad de los Andes.
ART. 1. For all intents and purposes, a person shall be considered a student of the Universidad de los Andes
At Andes, every person who finds themselves in one of the following situations:
Those who are registered for an academic period in one of the institution's regular programs.
Those enrolled in any activity conducted by the University, other than regular programs.
Those who, having proven fulfillment of all requirements for obtaining the degree, only need the actual conferral of the degree in the graduation ceremony or through the by-window procedure.
Those who are academically and disciplinarily suspended.

When registering or enrolling at Universidad de los Andes, students formally commit to respecting the institution's statutes and regulations, and, consequently, to complying with its academic, disciplinary, and administrative norms. It is their duty to constantly know and consult these norms on the institutional website.


CHAPTER II

## GENERAL ORGANIZATION



ART. 3. The Universidad de los Andes has a Superior Council, a Directing Committee, a rector, one or several vice-rectors, a general secretary, and a University Council for its governance and academic and administrative direction.


CHAPTER V. RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES



The Academic Vice President, the deans, department directors, faculty councils, disciplinary committees and all other necessary academic and administrative departments for the proper functioning of the institution, in accordance with what is established in its bylaws and regulations.


CHAPTER III

## ADMISSION AND CONTINUATION

A. Regular Admission
ART. 4º. Admission to the master's programs offered by Universidad de los Andes is conditional upon the applicant meeting the following requirements:
a) Having completed university studies and holding at least a professional degree.
b) To satisfactorily meet the specific additional requirements defined in each program, which may include the submission of other documents, passing tests, attending interviews, or any other requirements the program deems pertinent.
ART. 5. Admission applications to the different programs must include, at least:
A properly completed application form.
A copy of the diploma or degree certificate that verifies the professional degree.



ART. 6. A candidate who has been previously excluded from a program will not be accepted for admission to that same program. Nor will admission requests be considered for the academic period during which the student is suspended.
If a student who was excluded from a program is subsequently admitted to another one, in accordance with the requirements of the previous article, they will have two options regarding their academic record.
Start with a new average, without keeping credits or grades from the previous academic program.
b) To retain credits and grades of all courses taken in the first program that are valid for the second program.
ART. 7°. The University reserves the right to admit or renew enrollment of whoever has been convicted with a sentence that deprives of liberty.
The Academic Council, upon request from the Admissions Office or the relevant academic unit, as the case may be, will be the body responsible for deciding on admission or renewal of enrollment.
If the interested party considers that the circumstances that led to a negative decision by the Academic Council have ceased to exist, they may request that the mentioned body re-examine their case.

Against the decisions of the Academic Council, only the remedy of reconsideration may be filed, within five working days following notification of the decision.
B. Admission by Internal Transfer
Master's students whose cumulative grade average is 3.5 or higher may request authorization to change programs to a specialization or another master's program once they have completed an academic period.


The approval of this request is the responsibility of the program to which the student wishes to transfer, after analyzing their average and compliance with the program's other admission requirements. To this end, the student must submit their request through the established channel, within the deadlines set by the academic calendar.


CHAPTER III. ADMISSION AND RETENTION


A student who was definitively excluded from a program and later admitted to a different graduate program, will not be approved for an internal transfer to the program from which they were definitively excluded.
Paragraph 2. If a student transfers to a graduate program that they had previously been enrolled in, upon returning to it their grades will be reinstated (see the Homologation and Validation of Courses Regulation).

ART. 9. The transferred student has one semester after their transfer to formalize their homologations and it is their responsibility to personally and promptly carry out the procedures that the homologation entails. The student who chooses internal transfer will not be allowed to delete the final grades of those courses that are in the curriculum of the program to which they wish to transfer or that are homologable in it.
C. Entry by External Transfer
Applicants who have begun graduate studies at another university may request, before the Admissions Office, an external transfer to any master's program at Universidad de los Andes.



ART. 11. External transfer applications will be decided by the dean of the faculty under which the transfer is being assessed, who has the autonomy to establish the academic requirements that applicants must meet to be admitted, as well as to define the number of available spots for each period. The dean's decisions will be communicated to the Admissions Department, which is authorized to inform the interested party accordingly.
The dean of the faculty accepting the transfer will process, at the student's request, the matters related to the homologation of courses taken at the student's previous university. The transferred student must process their homologation procedures immediately after being admitted and complete them before the end of their first semester in the program. The grades of the courses taken at another university will be considered only as a criterion for approving or rejecting the homologation, in accordance with the.

Regulations for Course Homologations and Validation.
D. Permanence
ART. 12. Residency. To be eligible for their respective degree, students must take and pass, as a minimum, an equivalent of 50% of their program credits in courses from formal programs of the
University of the Andes
ART. 13. The University guarantees students the right to remain at the institution, as long as they meet the retention requirements contained in this regulation and especially with the following:
Meet the registration requirements.
b) To comply with the University's academic regulations.
Obey the University's disciplinary regulations.

To comply with the University's other regulations.


CHAPTER IV

## Financial Rights



ART. 14. The students of Universidad de los Andes must pay, on the dates previously determined by the institution and in its favor,


CHAPTER V. RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

these amounts correspond to the pecuniary rights established for the provision of the educational service.
The University has established the rights corresponding to the following concepts:
 Enrollment in the program, if applicable.
b) Enrollment (see the Master's and Doctoral Enrollment and Refund Regulations).
Accident Insurance
Degree Rights
Courses taught during vacation or by the Summer School.
Offering of special courses and continuing education.
Taking of preparatory or equivalent exams.
Courses taken by extension
i) Transcripts or special certifications.

Fines.


CHAPTER V

## RIGHTS AND DUTIES

A. Rights
ART. 15. The student has the right to demand a high academic standard in the courses offered by the University, and to actively and fully benefit from the educational process.
ART. 16. The student has the right to receive respectful treatment, free from coercion, intimidation, or harassment.



ART. 17. Students have the right to freely express their ideas, individually or collectively, within the framework of respect and institutional development.
ART. 18. The student has the right to freedom of association and to participate in university life, in accordance with the sixth chapter of this regulation.
ART. 19. The student has the right to confidentiality regarding their personal data, behavior, academic records, and health, in accordance with Colombian law, the provisions of this regulation, and applicable current regulations. The corresponding information may only be provided at the request of the student or by order of a competent authority. The University will unilaterally provide it in situations that may put the student's safety and well-being at risk.
The student has the right to know and consult the different regulations, policies, procedures, modifications, and other institutional information, as well as the consequences of failing to comply with them.
ART. 21. The student has the right to know, at the beginning of each academic period and in writing, the course programs they will take, the criteria by which they will be evaluated, and to be informed in a timely manner about the results of the evaluations, which they may contest in accordance with what is established in chapter seven of this regulation.
The student has the right to have the academic and disciplinary situations in which they are involved studied in a clear, impartial, and objective manner; to defend themselves, to request the admission of evidence, to challenge the evidence presented against them, and to file any applicable appeals against the decisions that affect them.
ART. 23. The student has the right to use effective forms of communication with all members of the Universidad de los Andes community and to receive a prompt and timely response to all the requests they submit to the University.


ART. 24. The student has the right to properly utilize, in accordance with specific regulations, all services, infrastructure, and physical facilities that the University provides for its community.


CHAPTER V. RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES



The student has the right to know the results of the evaluations carried out on courses and professors by the students in each academic period.
Duties
ART. 26. It is the student's duty to carry out their academic work with honesty and responsibility, and to act with the diligence inherent to their activity.
ART. 27. It is the student's duty to give members of the Uniandino community a respectful treatment, free from coercion, intimidation, or harassment.
ART. 28. It is the duty of the student to evaluate the University's academic services honestly, respectfully, and impartially, especially professors and their courses. Consequently, the duty of the student is to fill out teacher and course evaluations in a timely manner.
ART. 29. It is the duty of students to make responsible use of their freedom of expression and association, in accordance with the law and institutional regulations.
ARTICLE 30. It is the student's duty to keep their personal data up to date in the University's Banner system. It is also the student's duty to respect the confidentiality and privacy of other members of the university community, especially with regard to personal data, conduct, academic records, and mental and physical health.
ART. 31. It is the duty of the student to consult and comply with the various regulations, policies, procedures, course programs, and other institutional information disseminated through bulletins, notices, electronically sent messages, or any other means. Ignorance of this information does not exempt the student from compliance.



ART. 32. It is the student's duty to abide by the academic and disciplinary sanctions imposed by university authorities.
ART. 33. It is the student's responsibility to use the University's information in a responsible manner, in accordance with Colombian law and the institution's regulations.
ART. 34. It is the student's duty to contribute to the care of the physical plant and technological infrastructure, as well as to use the services offered by the University in an adequate manner and in accordance with the institutional regulations adopted for this purpose.

It is the student's duty to know and comply with the academic calendar that the University's Registry Office disseminates annually.


CHAPTER VI

## STUDENT PARTICIPATION

ART. 36. Universidad de los Andes promotes the effective participation of students in university life, as an essential element of their civic education and the development of democratic values. To that end, it will ensure joint deliberation on university policies and facilitate the free flow of information among members of the Uniandino community.
Art. 37 Within the statutory and regulatory framework of the University, student presence in the University's internal academic and disciplinary processes constitutes one of the mechanisms of student participation. This will be made effective through:
a) The presentation of initiatives in all aspects that affect their formation.


The organization of extracurricular activities and student well-being.


CHAPTER VI. STUDENT PARTICIPATION


Participation in the Superior Council, Academic Council, faculty or department councils, committees, ad hoc commissions, graduate committees, and disciplinary committees, as a contribution to the harmonious development of the University's academic and disciplinary life, under the terms provided in the Universidad de los Andes statutes and in the present regulation.
It is the right of every student to have individual access to the different decision-making bodies of the University, without prejudice to the participation established in the previous paragraph.
Every student has the right to evaluate the academic services to which they have access.
ART. 38. Students chosen to participate in the University's different instances must meet the following requirements:
Be students at the time of election and during their participation in the respective instance.
Be part of the Graduate Student Council.
Not having lost their political rights due to the commission of common crimes, as per a final sentence.
Not to be under disciplinary sanction by the University.



The Academic Council of the University, in accordance with the previously stated criteria, will coordinate and approve the participation mechanisms and forms proposed by the faculties, departments, and students.


CHAPTER VII

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS


The following provisions are applicable to master's students at Universidad de los Andes, for all academic purposes related to their study programs and their stay in the institution:
A. Attendance in Class
ART. 41. Courses will begin on the designated day as established in the academic calendar, and professors will ensure compliance with the program.
ART. 42. Classes at the University may be scheduled as early as 6:30 a.m., Colombian time.
ART. 43. Each professor is authorized to monitor attendance at their synchronous classes and determine the consequences of absence if it exceeds 20%.
ART. 44. The parameters for controlling attendance at synchronous classes will be informed to students on the first day of the academic period, along with the course program, so that they commit to respecting them from that moment on.
Absence from classes for special reasons
The student who wishes to justify their absence shall do so before the professor within a term of no more than three (3) calendar days following the date of the academic activity.
The following will be valid excuses:


Medical disabilities issued by health service provider institutions, centers or companies that have the due authorization from the relevant health authorities.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME


Disabilities certified by the Student Dean's Office.
Death of the spouse or relatives up to the second degree of consanguinity or affinity.
Authorization to participate in sports events issued by the Dean's Office of Students.
Authorization to attend academic and cultural activities, issued by the respective academic department.
f) Summons to judicial proceedings, duly supported by the respective document (see the Regulations on Student Disabilities and Academic Council Agreement 126, on student participation in academic and sports events).
The student is advised to notify the professor by email of the reason for their absence within 24 hours of the date of the academic activity.

The professor may take into account other circumstances that, in his or her judgment, may justify the student's absence.
B. Grades
ART. 46. The percentage of each evaluation, as well as its criteria, will be established by the professor and communicated to the students on the first day of the academic period, as part of the course program. A copy of this information will be sent to the program directorship or coordination. The professor will be attentive to hearing the observations students may make regarding this aspect.



ART. 47. For the purposes of grading, professors of each course or subject shall program a minimum of three evaluations, which will be administered to assess the student's academic progress and performance during a given academic term. None of the administered evaluations may have a value greater than 35%.
In the event that the duration of the course is less than or equal to eight (8) weeks, at least two (2) evaluations may be conducted. In this case, each evaluation may be worth up to 50%.
In summer school courses and courses whose duration is four weeks or less, the professor may administer a single evaluation that can be worth up to 100% of the course.
Projects for degree completion, theses, and academic practices are exempt from this provision, which will have a special grading system to be defined and communicated by each professor to the students and the director or coordinator of the program at the start of each course.
ART. 48. For the realization of evaluations, the professor may choose to administer oral or written exams, assignments, projects, essays, partial and final exams, or any other procedure deemed suitable for measuring the student's learning and mastery of course concepts. The result of the evaluations will be indicated with the corresponding grade, accompanied by the respective justification.
The professor will use the grading criteria that, in their discretion, they consider suitable.
ART. 49. Oral evaluations, whether in person or through technological means, in which the student's activity consists solely of answering the questions posed by the professor and that have a value greater than 15% of the course grade, must take place in the presence of an additional professor, who must also serve as an evaluator.


ART. 50. A student who fails to attend scheduled evaluations by the University may be awarded a grade of Zero (0). Notification given by the student immediately before the evaluation does not exempt them from presenting a subsequent justification, which must be submitted to the corresponding professor within a period not exceeding three (3) calendar days after the date the test was administered.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME

Once the absence is accepted by the professor, they will set a date, time, and manner in which the corresponding evaluation must be taken, but in any case, it must be carried out within two weeks following the acceptance of the justification presented. For courses lasting eight weeks or less, this period will be one week (see the Student Incapacities Regulations and agreement 126 of the Academic Council, regarding student participation in academic and sporting events).
ART. 51. In cases of unannounced assessments where a student is not present, the professor is at liberty to administer it later. The value of each unannounced assessment under no circumstances may exceed 5% of the course's final grade.
ART. 52. Final course grades will be numerical values between one point five (1.50) and five (5.00), in whole, tenths and hundredths. The minimum passing grade will be three (3.00).
The final grades fall within the following numerical scale:
FIVE (5.00) - FOUR FIFTY (4.50). EXCELLENT: The student fully achieved the proposed objectives. They made the most of the course and the quality of their work was excellent.
FOUR FORTY-NINE (4.49) - FOUR (4.00). GOOD: The student fully met the course objectives. They took advantage of the course and the quality of their work was good.
THREE POINT NINETY-NINE (3.99) - THREE POINT FIFTY (3.50). SATISFACTORY

The student did well in meeting the course objectives. He made the most of the course, and the quality of his work was satisfactory.
## THREE POINT FOURTY NINE (3.49) - THREE POINT ZERO ZERO (3.00) PASS:




The student met the course objectives, but the quality of his work was only satisfactory.
BETWEEN 1.50 AND 2.99 - INSUFFICIENT: The student did not meet the minimum criteria to pass the course.
1.50 is the minimum grade.
Professors will have autonomy to establish their own criteria for grading, but they must always report it in the course syllabus that is handed out on the first day of the academic period.
ART. 53. Pass/Fail (P/F). Applies to those courses that, as determined by the faculty councils, receive non-numerical grades. Credits for passed courses count as degree requirements when the academic program so determines, but will not be taken into account for the calculation of the academic period average or the accumulated average.
ART. 54. In no case shall the University recognize courses taken without meeting the established prerequisites.


Special grades.
Incomplete
ART. 55. Incomplete (I). The faculty council to which the student belongs may apply the grade 'I' in one or more subjects when the student has been unable to meet, due to justified reasons, the course requirements. This will proceed following a written request from the student, after the established withdrawal dates outlined in the academic calendar, and up to thirty (30) calendar days after the last withdrawal day.


Paragraph 1. Requests for the Incomplete 'I' grade submitted more than thirty (30) calendar days after the last withdrawal date and within the two-year period following the end of the academic period for which the request is being made may be considered by the Faculty Council or the body to which it delegates such matters.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME

The Vice President for Academic Affairs will review the case, issue a ruling, and send it to the Student Affairs Committee to make a decision, against which no further appeals will be allowed.
Requests for the grade of Incomplete 'I' will not be accepted if made more than two years after the end of the academic period to which the request pertains.
ART. 56. If the grade of Incomplete is granted, the student will be able to take the course or courses when his or her program offers them. However, it is not guaranteed that these same courses will be offered in the next academic period, and the corresponding program will determine the procedure that must be followed.
Pending
ART. 57. Pending (P). This grade is applied when, in order to meet all the course requirements, the student only needs to present a final exam that cannot be completed on the scheduled date, or when a grade cannot be assigned within the deadline set by the Directorate.
Registration, in both cases due to force majeure. The written request must be presented by the student to the program coordination, with prior approval from the course professor. In no case can the grades of an entire section appear as pending.
ART. 58. The 'P' grade must be replaced at the latest one month after the end of the academic period or fifteen days after the end of the inter-semester period. If the 'P' grade is not replaced within the stipulated timeframe, the Registry Office will assign the student a minimum grade of 1.5.
Pending disciplinary action



ART. 59. Pending Discipline (PD). Special note applicable to students who are linked to a disciplinary process. It may only be replaced once the process is concluded.
Special Probation
ART. 60. Special Extension (PE). Exceptional note applicable to those students who are completing their final coursework or thesis and who, for justified reasons, have not completed it within the initially established period. This provision is made through a student's request, properly substantiated and approved by the faculty council, following a favorable concept from the director of the thesis or final coursework.
This note will be granted on one occasion each time the student enrolls in the final course of the degree's work cycle or thesis for an additional and consecutive academic semester beyond the initially established deadline to fulfill the thesis requirement. If the student meets the thesis requirement before the end of the additional academic period, they may graduate by expedited procedures, according to the established dates for doing so.
If the 'PE' grade is not replaced during the additional academic period, the Registration Department will assign the student the minimum grade of 1.5 when the thesis or degree work is numerically graded, or the grade 'Failed' (R) when the grading is alphabetical.
ART. 61. While the transcript includes a grade of Pending (P), for academic or disciplinary reasons, it will have provisional status.


Claims


ART. 62. Any student who wishes to file a complaint regarding the grade of any evaluation or the final grade of the course must do so in writing and fully substantiated to the responsible professor of the subject, within four (4) working days following the date on which the grades in question are made known. The professor has five (5) working days to resolve the complaint filed; upon expiration of the term, the professor will inform the student, in writing, of the corresponding decision.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME


ART. 63. If the student considers that the teacher's decision does not correspond to the evaluation criteria, they may request the designation of a second evaluator by submitting a well-substantiated written request to the faculty council within four (4) working days following notification of the decision. If the council deems the request justified, it will appoint a second evaluator solely for this purpose, whose substantiated decision will be final and unchangeable. In no case may the second evaluator worsen the initial grade assigned by the teacher.
ART. 64. In case of complaints regarding grades obtained in oral exams, at the time of learning the respective grade and in case of disagreement, the student will have the opportunity to state the reasons for their disagreement to the professor or evaluating professors. If the professor or evaluating group insists on the grade, it will be at the discretion of the faculty council to which the course belongs to conduct a new exam, following a written request from the student.


Change of Final Grades
ART. 65. After the deadline set in the academic calendar for changing grades stemming from filed complaints, changes can only be made with authorization from the coordinator or director of the program to which the course belongs, or their replacement. This circumstance will be immediately communicated to the Registry Office by the relevant academic department. These grade changes cannot be authorized after two weeks have passed since the start of the academic period following the one in which the course was taught.


Grading Release



ART. 66. All professors at the University must inform their students of the grades obtained within ten (10) working days following the evaluation in the case of courses of more than eight (8) weeks, and within five (5) working days following the evaluation for courses of eight (8) weeks or less. This deadline does not apply to theses and degree projects, or academic internships.
ART. 67. At least 30% of the grades must be made known by the professor on the dates established in the academic calendar. This provision applies to courses of eight (8) weeks or more that have this requirement established.
ART. 68. Prior to the final exam, the student has the right to know the partial grades obtained during the academic period and may request them from the course professor.
ART. 69. Final grades for the academic period will be made known by the Registration Office on dates established in the academic calendar.


5. Certificate of Grades
ART. 70. Only the Registrar's Office issues transcripts of academic records.
ART. 71. The University will only provide academic or disciplinary information about a student when requested or expressly authorized by the student, or by order of a competent authority, without prejudice to what is provided in article 18 of this regulation.

Disciplinary observations shall not be included in the transcripts issued by the Registration Office for external use.
C. Academic Status
Students enrolled at the University may find themselves in any of the following situations:


Disciplinary Suspension


ART. 72. Disciplinary Suspension. Temporary exclusion of the student from the University's regular programs for up to six (6) semesters.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME

Three academics, for the commission of a disciplinary offense considered as serious or very serious.


2. Re-entry
ART. 73. Reinstatement. Reinstatement will proceed in cases where the student has been withdrawn from the University due to academic or disciplinary suspension.
ART. 74. Procedure for Re-enrollment. Re-enrollment requests, due to both academic and disciplinary reasons, must be made in writing and within the timeframe set by the University for this purpose before the faculty council. The decision made, duly justified, will be communicated to the student through the direction or coordination of the respective program.
ART. 75. Re-entry Policy. All re-entries due to disciplinary reasons shall be automatic, once the student has fulfilled the imposed sanction and has taken the workshop dictated by the Decanatura.
For this purpose, the direction or coordination of the respective program will be in charge of verifying attendance to the workshop, before processing the re-entry (registrations for this workshop can be done through the email centrodeapoyo@uniandes.edu.co).


3. Voluntary Withdrawal
ART. 76. Voluntary Withdrawal from the University. The student who wishes to temporarily withdraw from the University must inform the Registry Office of their decision using the mechanism established for this purpose, on the dates specified for it in the academic calendar.
The Registrar's Office will inform the department to which the student belongs of voluntary withdrawals.



ART. 77. When a student's voluntary withdrawal from the University occurs within the dates established for this purpose in the academic calendar, the student may request reinstatement and the courses they were taking will be considered as not taken.
ART. 78. Subsequent to the dates established in the academic calendar for withdrawals, the student may request an incomplete grade in accordance with the provisions established in article 55 of these regulations.


4. Refund
ART. 79. Reenrollment. A student's request for reenrollment will be processed in cases where the student has voluntarily withdrawn from the University.
ART. 80. Reimbursement Procedure. Reimbursement requests must be made through the established medium and within the timeframe set by the University for this purpose, before the Registration Department, which will be responsible for processing them and informing the respective academic departments accordingly. If the reimbursement is requested more than two years after withdrawal, the request must be made to the corresponding faculty, which will be in charge of processing and informing the Registration Department.
ART. 81. Re-enrollment Policy. The University reserves the right to review the study plan of the student who is re-enrolling, as it may be subject to modifications.
ART. 82. Master's programs cannot guarantee that the same course will be part of the course offerings in the following academic period. In this case, the respective faculty council must determine the procedure to be followed.


5. Standard

ART. 83. Normal. Students who are not in any of the previous academic states will be considered to be in a normal academic state.
D. Requirements for all students


Thesis or final project


ART. 84. The development and evaluation of the thesis or degree work will be governed according to the conditions and requirements established and informed to the students by each program.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME




2. English requirement.

To comply with the English requirement, if the program has established one.
E. Academic Opportunities


1. Enrolment and Withdrawal of Courses
ART. 86. On the registration date for each academic period, announced by the Registry Office, the student must adjust their registration through the system established for this purpose. After this date, the student can add or remove courses from their program during the period designated for this, following the procedures established by the Registry Office.
After the first week of the period and before the last day for withdrawals as set forth in the academic calendar, the student can withdraw from one or more courses, completing the procedures established by the Registration Office.


Academic Load
ART. 87. The measurement of academic workload shall be carried out by means of the academic credit unit, which is equivalent to 48 hours of work in an academic period, both synchronous and asynchronous. The maximum academic workload for a master's student shall be 20 credits per academic period.
In the event that the student is simultaneously enrolled in programs of different levels, the total number of credits registered by the student during the same period or in simultaneous periods cannot be greater than the highest maximum academic load of any of the levels.



The number of credits for an academic activity will be expressed in whole numbers and no course or academic activity may have zero credits.


Double major program
ART. 88. Dual program. Students enrolled in a master's program may take another master's or specialization program, subject to authorization from the second program to which the student aspires.
To this effect, the following will be verified in relation to the applicant.
a) Your cumulative academic grade point average is 3.0 or higher.
b) Compliance with the other previously established admission requirements.
The student must make their request in writing to the program management or coordination, observing the dates established by the academic calendar for that purpose.
In the event that the dual program is approved, the involved academic units will notify the Registration Office accordingly.
ART. 89. Students who are approved to take a double program with one they were previously enrolled in will have their grades in the previously taken courses in that program reinstated.
ART. 90. Students who, due to not obtaining the required minimum grade point average, have been definitively excluded from a program, but have been admitted to another, shall not be allowed to apply for a dual program with the one they previously attended.


Courses during the intersemester period
ART. 91. During the mid-year break, the University offers two types of courses to students.
a) Vacation Courses
They are courses from the existing regular programs at the University, which are taught with twice the hourly intensity of a regular semester.


Except for the above, they have the same characteristics as a semester course.


# CHAPTER VII. ACADEMIC REGIME


b) Summer School Courses



By summer school courses those offered by the University in the inter-semester period and having the following characteristics are understood: 
• They are advanced level. 
• They are taught by professors with a recognized background and who are affiliated to a foreign university with high quality standards.
• They have a minimum of 30 hours and a maximum of 45, with an equivalence of 3 or 4 credits, depending on the level of demand of the course.
• They can have a single evaluation (see article 46).
• Students can drop the course up until one day before the final evaluation or work, or by the latest date for withdrawals if this is after the final evaluation date. 
The University will not refund the amounts paid for registration.


5. Possibility of transferring credits
ART. 92. Master's students may transfer a maximum of 16 credits taken in the undergraduate program at Uniandes and a maximum of 16 credits taken in the extension program also at Uniandes. In no case, the total sum of credits taken in the undergraduate and extension programs that can be transferred to the master's degree should exceed 24 credits.
Master's students may transfer credits for courses taken in other graduate programs at Universidad de los Andes.
Courses of regular programs at Universidad de los Andes
Andean universities will be validated with credits and grades; when homologation is made, it must be guaranteed that the student's overall cumulative average is maintained at least at three (3).



ART. 94. Master's students may homologate (transfer) courses taken and passed at other universities, as well as continuing education courses.
Continue (EDCO credits) provided they comply with article 12 of residency.
ART. 95. All homologations must comply with what is established in this Regulation, in the Regulation of Homologation and Validation of
Courses and specific requirements of each program.



Possibility of obtaining a degree from a specialized program
ART. 96. Master's students may request the specialization degree from the unit to which the specialization program belongs, and this unit will decide on total or partial homologation based on full compliance with the requirements of the program to be homologated.



7. Attending Students
ART. 97. The University only allows students enrolled in a regular program to take courses as auditing students. In all cases, the explicit authorization of the course professor is required, who has the discretion to accept it. Attendance in these courses will not lead to grades, academic certificates, or credits.

Students who have passed a course and wish to retake it may only do so as non-credit attendees.


CHAPTER VIII

## Academic Advising



ART. 98. Students will have the support of an advisor for guidance in their university life in terms of options and decisions relevant to their development within the University. Each faculty or department will report the names of the advisors no later than the third week of classes.


CHAPTER IX. ACADEMIC RECOGNITIONS




CHAPTER IX

## Academic Recognition


ART. 99. Cum Laude Degree. The University awards the Cum Laude degree to those master's students whose weighted average is ranked in the top 3% of the historic average of graduates of their program over the last five years. For those master's programs that are new or have a very small enrollment, with fewer than 34 graduates, the average is calculated based on the total graduates of the faculty, until the program completes a minimum of 34 graduates (See Recognition of Academic Achievements Regulations).


CHAPTER X

PROCEDURES IN AFFAIRS

## ACADEMICS AND ADMINISTRATION

ART. 100. All university bodies and employees are instituted to assist members of the community. To resolve their academic affairs, students must follow the following regular channel: 1) Professor 2) Faculty Council 3) Student Affairs Committee



In all academic matters not covered by a specific regulation or procedure in this bylaw, students must approach the professor directly in order to find a solution to the problem presented. If no solution is reached, they may then refer the matter to the faculty council, and their written request must include evidence of the prior approach to the professor.
The faculty council will make the corresponding decision and notify the student in the same terms as article 21 of the disciplinary regime for master's students.
Academic decisions will be made in writing, properly reasoned, indicating the appeals that may be filed against them, the deadlines for doing so, and the authorities before which they must be presented. For administrative matters, students must submit their request to the competent unit for processing, in accordance with the specific regulations. In the absence of such regulations or a specific procedure, they must submit their request to the competent authority or employee. The decisions will be made in writing and will be properly reasoned.
ART. 101. Appeals. These are written submissions by which a student seeks to have an academic decision revoked, modified or clarified.
ART. 102. Against the decisions made in the first instance, a request for reconsideration may be filed with the faculty council, and in the second instance, an appeal may be filed with the Student Affairs Committee.
Decisions made in a single instance may only be appealed through a petition for reconsideration. Decisions made in the resolution of appeals may not be appealed further.
ART. 103. Appeals filed with the different bodies must be resolved no later than the second session, counted from the date of submission of the appeal, unless specific provisions state otherwise.


ART. 104. Appeals must be filed through a motivated written submission within the five (5) working days following receipt of the notification that gave rise to them, except where specific regulations state a different time limit.


# CHAPTER XII. DEGREES




CHAPTER XI

## DEGREES

ART. 105. Degree Requirements. On the dates of the graduation ceremonies, Universidad de los Andes will award titles corresponding to the regular programs offered to those students who previously met the required requirements.
In master's degree programs, the following are requirements for obtaining the respective title:
a) Having obtained a cumulative average equal to or greater than 3.0.
Not being involved in a disciplinary process nor serving a severe sanction.
c) To meet the specific requirements demanded by each program and the general ones for all students, which should be informed in a timely manner.
d) Pay the degree fees required by the University and be up to date with all requirements, having no debts with the institution.
e) To accredit the minimum English requirement as established by each program (see the Compilation of internal administrative norms on graduation ceremonies).
Comply with the minimum residency established in Article 12 of this Regulation.
ART. 106. The maximum time limit to fulfill the requirements to obtain the master's degree will be eight years, counted from the date of the initial registration in the program. After the first five years,
The University reserves the right to review the plan of study of the student who re-enters, as it may be subject to modifications.
The maximum deadlines include the Special Pending deadlines.




ART. 107. Posthumous Degree. The posthumous degree is awarded to students who pass away during the course of their studies. A Committee consisting of the Academic Vice-Chancellor, the Dean of the Faculty to which the deceased student belonged, the Dean of Students, and the University Secretary General, will study the request and decide on its award. (See the criteria for the award of the posthumous degree).


# CHAPTER XIII

## Transitional Exceptional Provisions

Transitory Provisions


ART. 108. To this regulation are annexed the exceptional and transitory norms issued as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic, by the Executive Committee and by the Rector under the powers granted through the extraordinary delegation of functions and authorizations in the Rector by the Executive Committee, approved in session 198-20 on 27 March 2020 and modified in session 203-20 on 29 May 2020 (see the annex of exceptional and transitory norms issued as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic).
## Effectiveness


## Effectiveness




ART. 109. This regulation will take effect as of the 2024-2025 academic period.
## DEFINITIONS

Credit. It is the unit used to measure the student's academic workload in an academic period. It is equivalent to 48 hours of academic work, which includes hours with direct accompaniment from the faculty and hours of independent work that the student must dedicate to carrying out study, practice, or other activities necessary to achieve the objectives. The number of credits for an academic activity will be expressed in whole numbers.
Course. Each one of the subjects or courses offered by the University and that can be part of the curriculum corresponding to a specific academic program.
Summer School courses: These are master's-level courses taught by an international professor during the intersession period, on a special schedule. Summer School courses will have a minimum of 30 hours and a maximum of 45, equivalent to 3 or 4 credits, depending on the course's level of demand.
Academic status, which refers to the student's study situation at a particular point in their academic career.
Expulsion. Permanent cancellation of a student's enrollment due to committing a serious disciplinary offense.
Fraud. This is the student behavior that violates the University's rules
The University or the rules established by the assessor, during the development of an academic activity.


Homologation. This is the recognition that the University grants to courses taken by a student at another higher education institution or in a University academic program.
## DEFINITIONS


Incomplete. This is a special note applicable to students who, for justified reasons, do not meet the requirements for passing a course, which is then considered as not taken.
Enrollment. The process by which a person admitted to the University acquires the status of regular student and can benefit from the educational service provided by the institution, committing to comply with the regulations governing the provision of the service. Enrollment must be renewed for each academic period by paying the corresponding value, following the procedures and deadlines established by the University.
Pending. Special note applicable to those students who, due to force majeure, have been unable to fulfill one of the course requirements or have not obtained a final grade.
Special pending status. An exceptional note applicable to students who are completing their final thesis course and who, for justified reasons, have not finished it within the initially established period.
Disciplinary pending. Special note temporarily applicable to those students who are linked to a disciplinary process. It can only be replaced once the disciplinary process is concluded.
Practicum. Complementary training that takes place outside the classroom, allowing students to take an active role in the dynamics of the labor world.
Regular program. Any of the programs offered by the University at the undergraduate or graduate level leading to the award of a degree recognized by the Ministry of National Education.



Non-regular program. That which the University offers under the framework of continuing education.
Average. It is the result of multiplying the number of credits of each subject by the grade obtained, adding these products and dividing the result by the total number of credits graded numerically. This procedure will be used for the purpose of determining the average for the academic period and the student's cumulative average.
Cumulative average. This refers to all the academic work carried out by a student in a regular program offered by the University.
The student's overall GPA is unique and includes all courses taken by the student and is not separable in the event the student is pursuing more than one program at the same level.
Academic Period Average, which refers to each semester taken by the student. To obtain it, the numerical grades obtained in each of the subjects taken during the respective academic period will be considered.
Disciplinary probation. Refers to the period during which a student has conditional enrollment as a result of a disciplinary penalty.
Appeal. Procedure whereby the student requests reconsideration of a received grade, through written communication.
Appeal. A written document in which the student requests that a decision made by any University body or employee be clarified, modified or overturned.
Re-enrollment. Procedure through which a student who has been withdrawn from a regular program at the University, for academic or disciplinary reasons, is reinstated in the University.
Reintegration: Procedure through which a student who has voluntarily withdrawn from a regular program at the University rejoins it.


Voluntary withdrawal from the University. The student's voluntary decision to temporarily disaffiliate from the University.
## DEFINITIONS


Disciplinary suspension. Temporary exclusion of the student from the University's regular programs as a consequence of committing a serious disciplinary offense.

Transfer. The procedure by which a regular student requests a program change within the University or a student from another higher education institution requests admission to one of the University of the Andes' programs, without going through the regular admissions process.

Bogotá (Colombia)
